[Music]
hi I'm Cassidy from BBC cat food and I'm
going to show you how to shape a burger
patty now for the ultimate burger you
want to buy some really good beef
something with a fat percentage of
around 20 percent if you can ask the
butcher to grind the beef for you I've
got a mixture of chuck and brisket in
here which it's got a good amount of fat
so it's gonna keep the burger nice and
juicy as it cooks I haven't added
anything to the meat at this stage some
recipes add onions or egg or breadcrumbs
to help bind the mixture but you really
don't need any of that and if you've got
good beef you don't want to dilute the
flavor so I haven't added any seasoning
either at this stage if you do add salt
now it can draw the moisture out leaving
you the driver ger so I'm going to
season them later when they go into the
pan so now I'm ready to shape this into
burgers I've got some balance to hand so
I can check the size that I want and I'm
just gonna make it a tiny bit bigger
than the size of the bun I'm gonna
squash it between two pieces of
parchment paper this will just give you
a really nice even layer then you can
reshape the sides a little bit with your
hands now as the meat cooks its gonna
contract so the burger get fatter in the
middle to prevent this I'm just gonna
push my thumb into the center to create
a dip so I'm just gonna continue shaping
the burgers and once they're all done
I'm gonna pop them in the fridge to rest
for about 30 minutes and this will just
prevent them from shrinking too much as
they cook
these are ready to chill now and I've
got some here which have been in the
fridge for about 30 minutes and they've
firmed up they want to get your pan nice
and hot you can of course cook these on
the barbecue but either way just make
sure you've got a nice high heat I'm
just going to drizzle a little bit of
oil in the pan and now I'm going to
season the burgers
so when your pans just starting to smoke
you can pop the burger then and don't
forget to use an other side as well
now don't be tempted to move the burgers
around too much in the pan just leave
them alone and they'll form a lovely
golden crust underneath the burgers are
ready to flip when you can see that
nearly halfway cooked up a size so now
I'm going to add the cheese you can add
any type of cheese you like and then to
help the cheese melt I'm going to
recover pan with the lid and this will
just create some steam
so to check the bag of the done I'm just
gonna insert the skewer into the middle
and it should be nice and warm to the
touch
for medium to well done so I'm just
gonna take these off the heat and just
like when you're cooking any meat it's
best to let them rest for a couple of
minutes just to relax so I'm gonna set
it to one side while I warm the buns and
get all the accompaniments ready
so I've warmed my buns and I've got all
of my accompaniments ready so now I'm
ready to assemble the burgers
[Music]
so they go that's how to make the
perfect burger
you